FAQ (#912)
graphprotocol/docs: website/src/pages/en/token-api/token-api-faq.mdx

Reviewer: Why include `token-api` in this filename? It will create a repetition in the URL (`/token-api/token-api-faq/` instead of `/token-api/faq/`).

Reviewer 2: Agree--the less wordy the path is, the better

---
title: Token API FAQ
---

## Table of Contents

- [Basic Topics](#basic-topics)
- [MCP / LLM / AI Topics](#mcp--llm--ai-topics)
- [Advanced Topics](#advanced-topics)
  - [Authentication & Access](#authentication--access)
  - [Network Support](#network-support)
  - [Query Parameters & Pagination](#query-parameters--pagination)
  - [Response Format & Data Handling](#response-format--data-handling)
  - [Common Issues & Troubleshooting](#common-issues--troubleshooting)

>   - [Integration & Usage](#integration--usage)

Reviewer: We don't need this; the table of contents is already automatically rendered in the right column (at least on sufficiently large screens; we can talk about a way to show it on smaller screens too).

## General

### What blockchains does the Token API support?

Currently, the Token API supports Ethereum, Binance Smart Chain (BSC), Polygon, Optimism, Base, and Arbitrum One.

> ### Why isn't my API key from thegraph.market working?

Reviewer: Is "thegraph.market" the official name of that site/app, and not "The Graph Market"? (I know we use "The Graph Market" in _some_ places at least, like in the App Launcher.)

Reviewer: That feedback applies to this whole page.

> Make sure you are using the Access Token, not the API key. You can generate an access token from the dashboard on thegraph.market, using the dropdown menu next to each API key.

Reviewer: I feel like this paragraph could make even more clear that Access Tokens are generated/derived from API Keys.

### How current is the data provided by the API relative to the blockchain?

The API provides data up to the Last Irreversible Block (LIB).

### How do I authenticate requests to the Token API?

> Authentication is managed via JWT tokens obtained through thegraph.market. JWT tokens issued by Pinax are also supported.

Reviewer: No explanation of what Pinax is or how/why they issue JWT tokens; maybe we should just omit that sentence?

> Authentication is managed via JWT tokens obtained through thegraph.market. JWT tokens issued by Pinax are also supported.

Reviewer: > JWT tokens are also supported

Hmm, but we just talked about JWT tokens. How about this:

```suggestion
Authentication is managed via JWT tokens obtained through thegraph.market. JWT tokens issued by Pinax, a core developer of The Graph, are also supported.
```

### Does the Token API provide a client SDK?

There are currently no plans for a client SDK. We encourage feedback on any SDKs or integrations you would like to see on [Discord](https://discord.gg/graphprotocol).

### Are there plans to support additional blockchains in the future?

> Yes, we plan to support more blockchains. Please share your feedback on desired chains on [Discord](https://discord.gg/graphprotocol).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, more blockchains will be supported in the future. Please share your feedback on desired chains on [Discord](https://discord.gg/graphprotocol).
```
(reads better to me)

### Are there plans to offer data closer to the chain head?

Yes, improvements to provide data closer to the chain head are planned. Your feedback is welcome on [Discord](https://discord.gg/graphprotocol).

### Are there plans to support additional use cases such as NFTs?

We are actively determining our roadmap for additional use cases, including NFTs. Please provide feedback on specific features you would like prioritized on [Discord](https://discord.gg/graphprotocol).

## MCP / LLM / AI Topics

### Is there a time limit for LLM queries?

Yes. The maximum time limit for LLM queries is 10 seconds.

### Is there a known list of LLMs that work with the API?

> Yes. At present, we know that Claude Desktop integrates successfully out of the box with our Token API + MCP server. Beyond that, whether an LLM "works" depends on whether it supports the MCP protocol directly (or has a compatible plugin/adapter).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes. Claude Desktop integrates successfully out of the box with The Graph's Token API + MCP server. However, compatibility with other LLMs depends on their native support for the MCP protocol directly or whether it has a compatible plugin/adapter.  
```

> Yes. At present, we know that Claude Desktop integrates successfully out of the box with our Token API + MCP server. Beyond that, whether an LLM "works" depends on whether it supports the MCP protocol directly (or has a compatible plugin/adapter).  
> Works out of the box:  
> Claude Desktop.  
> Potentially compatible:  
> Other LLMs that can implement the MCP protocol or use an existing adapter to do so.

Reviewer: Also, there's some weird formatting here, with line breaks instead of paragraphs. Is that intentional?

```suggestion
Yes. At present, we know that Claude Desktop integrates successfully out of the box with our Token API + MCP server. Beyond that, whether an LLM "works" depends on whether it supports the MCP protocol directly (or has a compatible plugin/adapter).

Works out of the box:
- Claude Desktop

Potentially compatible:
- Other LLMs that can implement the MCP protocol or use an existing adapter to do so
```
But I wonder if those lists are redundant; the following could be sufficient:
```suggestion
Yes. At present, we know that Claude Desktop integrates successfully out of the box with our Token API + MCP server. Beyond that, whether an LLM "works" depends on whether it supports the MCP protocol directly (or has a compatible plugin/adapter).
```

> Other LLMs that can implement the MCP protocol or use an existing adapter to do so.

Reviewer 2: Either list or sentences work, I gave a suggestion for sentences.

### Where can I find the MCP client?

[TBD: URL—confirm if hosted on current GitHub repository or under The Graph protocol.]

## Advanced Topics

### Authentication & Access

- **Q: I'm getting 403/401 errors. What's wrong?**  

>   **A:** Check that you included the `Authorization: Bearer <jwt>` header with the correct, non-expired token. Common issues include forgetting the "Bearer" prefix, using an incorrect token, or omitting the header entirely. Ensure you copied the JWT exactly as provided by The Graph Market.

Reviewer: Why the different format for Q/A? Did `####` look bad? (It's very possible the spacing was off or something.)

- **Q: Are there rate limits or usage costs?**  
  **A:** During Beta, the Token API is free for authorized developers. While specific rate limits aren't documented, reasonable throttling exists to prevent abuse. High request volumes may trigger HTTP 429 errors. Monitor official announcements for future pricing changes after Beta.

### Network Support

- **Q: What networks are supported, and how do I specify them?**  

>   **A:** The API supports Ethereum mainnet, Binance Smart Chain, Base, Arbitrum One, Optimism, and Polygon/Matic. Use the optional `network_id` parameter (e.g., `mainnet`, `bsc`, `base`, `arbitrum-one`, `optimism`, `matic`) to target a specific chain. Without this parameter, the API defaults to Ethereum mainnet. Aliases like "ethereum" or "eth" are also recognized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **A:** The API supports Ethereum mainnet, Binance Smart Chain, Base, Arbitrum One, Optimism, and Polygon/Matic. Use the optional `network_id` parameter (e.g., `mainnet`, `bsc`, `base`, `arbitrum-one`, `optimism`, `matic`) to target a specific chain. Without this parameter, the API defaults to Ethereum mainnet. Aliases like `ethereum` or `eth` are also recognized.
```
(very nitpicky, sorry)

- **Q: Why are token amounts returned as strings?**  
  **A:** Large numeric values (like token amounts or supplies) are returned as strings to avoid precision loss, as they often exceed JavaScript's safe integer range. Convert these to big number types for arithmetic operations. Fields like `decimals` are provided as normal numbers to help derive human-readable values.

### Common Issues & Troubleshooting

- **Q: What format should addresses be in?**  
  **A:** The API accepts 40-character hex addresses with or without the `0x` prefix. The endpoint is case-insensitive, so both lower and uppercase hex characters work. Ensure addresses are exactly 40 hex digits (20 bytes) if you remove the prefix. For contract queries, use the token's contract address; for balance/transfer queries, use the wallet address.

- **Q: Do I need special headers besides authentication?**  
  **A:** While recommended, `Accept: application/json` isn't strictly required as the API returns JSON by default. The critical header is `Authorization: Bearer <token>`. Ensure you make a GET request to the correct URL without trailing slashes or path typos (e.g., use `/balances/evm/{address}` not `/balance`).

> - **Q: MCP integration with Claude/Cline/Cursor shows errors like "ENOENT" or "Server disconnected." How do I fix this?**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Q: MCP integration with Claude/Cline/Cursor shows errors like "ENOENT" or "Server disconnected". How do I fix this?**  
```
